JUDY WOODRUFF: It's the most
expensive race in history to
fill a seat in the U.S. House
of Representatives.
And it's in a
district consistently
Republican for decades.
Newt Gingrich was the
congressman for Georgia's
6th District for 20 years.
It was most recently vacated
by Tom Price when he was tapped
to be secretary of health
and human services.
But Democrats are pinning
their hopes and lots of their
money on a young candidate.
Lisa Desjardins
brings us up to speed.
LISA DESJARDINS: More
than $50 million, that's
how much has been spent.
The special election
between Democrat Jon
Ossoff and Republican
Karen Handel in suburban
Atlanta has drawn outsized
national attention because, in
some ways, it hinges on a name
not on the ballot.
Divisions over President
Trump have Democrats
thinking they have a chance.
We break it down now
with Andra Gillespie.
She's a political science
professor at Emory
University in Atlanta.
And Greg Bluestein, a
reporter with The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution
and native of Georgia's
6th Congressional District.
Thank you both for joining us.
I want to start this by
looking at the extraordinary
numbers involved in
this race, the dollar
figures.
From what we know, as of the
reports at the end of May,
the Democrat in this race, Jon
Ossoff, had brought in $23
million, Republican Karen Handel
$4.5 million, but outside groups
$25 million.
Let me start with you, Greg.
How close is this race,
quickly, and why is there
so much spending here?
GREG BLUESTEIN, The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution: Yes,
this race is neck and neck.
Most public polls show
Ossoff within a one-
or two- or three-point
lead, within the margin
of error.
You talk to six different
analysts down here, you will
get six different opinions.
So, it really could be either
way tomorrow, when we have the
final vote -- $42 million-plus
has now been spent on just ads
alone, many of them negative.
So, district residents have
been pummeled and metro
Atlanta residents at large have
been pummeled with ads about
this race, which means there is
a very slim number of undecided
voters here.
LISA DESJARDINS: Andra, what
is happening here politically?
Is this just the extent of
spending everywhere, or is there
something different about this
race that has brought
in so much money?
ANDRA GILLESPIE, Emory
University: Well, unlike
a midterm election,
where you have hundreds
of congressional races going
on simultaneously, both parties
have been able to focus on each
individual special
race at a time.
And because this was the most
competitive of the special
elections that have been held
this spring, it garnered
the most attention.
And so campaign spending
and campaign fund-raising
are in part a signal
about how competitive
a race is.
So, in that respect,
it's not surprising that
this race broke records.
LISA DESJARDINS:
Unbelievable race.
And we have had even another
turn of events here in the last
week with the congressional
shooting that happened
outside of Washington that
is now entering this race.
And we saw, as you
mentioned, the ad war, Greg.
The ad war has brought
about a new ad in this race.
Let's play a clip of it.
NARRATOR: Now the unhinged left
is endorsing and applauding
shooting Republicans.
When will it stop?
It won't if Jon Ossoff
wins on Tuesday.
LISA DESJARDINS: I don't want
to necessarily talk about
that ad itself, but this idea,
Greg, of whether that shooting
could affect this race.
We have heard Republicans in
Georgia think that it might.
And, apparently, the
people who made that
ad think that it could.
GREG BLUESTEIN: Yes, and we
have also had both candidates
and their campaigns condemn
the ad and call for
it to be taken down.
It's being talked about in the
district, but I don't know how
much it will actually influence
any votes.
As we mentioned earlier, there
are so few undecided voters.
And this ad is targeting, I
think, Karen Handel supporters,
obviously, who go to the polls
for her, and many of them
are already locked in.
Early voting has already
exceeded 140,000, so
the majority of the
voters who will show
up, who will end up
casting ballots have
already cast their ballots.
So I'm not sure how much it
will change the race, but it
certainly is something we're
all talking about down here.
LISA DESJARDINS: Do you
think that will affect
voting at all, the shooting?
ANDRA GILLESPIE: I think that
this type of ad, especially
an independent expenditure
like this, is a reflection
of how parties don't control
certain types of politics as
much anymore.
And this shows one of the
negative consequences of
allowing outside groups
to be able to spend
money in these types of races.
Sometimes, they go off-script
and they do things that actually
the campaigns themselves
would actually reject and find
actually more harmful than good.
LISA DESJARDINS: Greg, I saw
you nodding about off-script.
Well, someone who likes
to go off-script, of
course, is President Trump.
He actually has participated
in this race, in fact tweeting
just today in support of
Republican Karen Handel.
That's really been the sort of
subtext with this entire race.
How much do you think
President Trump is a factor?
Is this a test of President
Trump's approval right now?
GREG BLUESTEIN: He is no
doubt -- undoubtedly a factor.
And every time some local
candidates or operatives
try to say that he's
not, we just point to
the fact that he has -- not
only has he sent a string of
tweets out, but he's recorded
robo-calls, he's come down
and stumped with Karen Handel.
So has Vice
President Mike Pence.
So he is without a doubt a
major factor in this race.
And really the only reason why
Democrats really think they
can win this is because of the
narrow margin that he won
the district by in November.
LISA DESJARDINS: And
let's talk about that.
We are going to show some
more numbers about that.
It's amazing to me.
Look at this.
Mitt Romney won this district
by 23 points and, as you say,
President Trump just by one.
Andra, I want to ask you.
We have these two candidates
who represent somewhat of a
conservative view and a liberal
view, but lately they have
moved toward the middle.
Who are they trying
to appeal to?
Who will decide this race?
ANDRA GILLESPIE: In particular,
both campaigns have tried to
reach out to suburban women
voters, so particularly
college-educated white women.
We have seen super PACs in
support of Karen Handel mention
that she would be the only
woman in Georgia's
congressional delegation.
And we have seen Jon Ossoff play
the Planned Parenthood card,
noting that when Karen Handel
was an executive at the Susan G.
Komen Foundation, she allegedly
helped get Planned Parenthood
defunded to help fit a
certain political agenda.
And so if there is some
moderate-leaning even Republican
women who might be uncomfortable
with playing abortion politics
with, say, breast cancer, that
might be a way to demobilize
that constituency
and help his cause.
LISA DESJARDINS: It is
one heck of a race, guys.
Andra Gillespie and Greg
Bluestein, I'm jealous
I'm not down there, but
thank you for joining
us.
GREG BLUESTEIN: Thank you.
ANDRA GILLESPIE: Thank you.